---
title: "Build a Static Website on IIS | Microsoft Docs"
author: rmcmurray
description: "This document guides you through the process of installing an IIS web server and configuring it to serve static content. Static content is a web page (HTML)..."
ms.author: aspnetcontent
manager: wpickett
ms.date: 04/14/2013
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 
ms.technology: dotnet-webforms
ms.prod: .net-framework
msc.legacyurl: /learn/manage/creating-websites/scenario-build-a-static-website-on-iis
msc.type: authoredcontent
---
Build a Static Website on IIS
====================
by [Keith Newman and Robert McMurray](https://github.com/rmcmurray)

This document guides you through the process of installing an IIS web server and configuring it to serve static content. Static content is a web page (HTML) that is delivered to the user exactly as stored. By contrast, dynamic content is generated by a web application, such as an ASP.NET, classic ASP, or PHP application. Static content displays the same information for all users; dynamic content can display user-specific information, such as the user name.

A static-content web server is the most basic configuration of IIS for supporting HTML websites. You can use a static-content web server to host internal or external (public) websites. When you install IIS 8, the default installation provides all the IIS modules required to support a static-content web server. The default installation includes the ability to serve static HTML files, documents, and images. IIS 8 supports default documents, directory browsing, logging, and anonymous authentication for the static content server.

<a id="00"></a>
## Prerequisites

To get the most from this tutorial, you must have access to a computer that is running one of the following operating systems:

- Windows Server® 2012
- Windows® 8

<a id="01"></a>
## Step 1: Install the IIS Web Server

You can use the Web Platform Installer (Web PI) to install IIS and applications that run on IIS. The Web PI installs the latest versions of web platform offerings, including updates. To learn more about the Web PI, see [Learn more and install the Web PI](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=145510). If you use the Web PI to install IIS, you can skip to step 2.

You can also perform this procedure by using the Windows user interface (UI) or from a command line.

### To install IIS on Windows Server 2012 by using the UI

1. On the **Start** page, click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click **OK**.
2. In **Server Manager**, select **Dashboard**, and click **Add roles and features**.
3. In the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
4. On the **Select Installation Type** page, select **Role-based or Feature-based Installation** and click **Next**
5. On the **Select Destination Server** page, select **Select a server from the server pool**, select the name of your computer, and click **Next**.
6. On the **Select Server Roles** page, select **Web Server (IIS)**, and then click **Next**.
7. On the **Select Features** page, notice the preselected features, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Web Server Role (IIS)** page, click **Next**.
9. On the **Select Role Services** page, note the preselected role services, and then click **Next**. (> [!NOTE]
> Install the IIS 8 default role services for a static-content web server.)
10. On the **Confirm Installation Selections** page, confirm your selections, and then click **Install**.
11. On the **Installation Progress** page, confirm that your installation of the Web Server (IIS) role and required role services completed successfully, and then click **Close**.
12. To verify that IIS installed successfully, enter the following into a web browser:

    `http://localhost`

    You see the default IIS Welcome page.

### To install IIS on Windows 8 by using the UI

1. On the **Start** page, type **Control Panel**, and then click the **Control Panel** icon in the search results.
2. In **Control Panel**, click **Programs**, and then click **Turn Windows features on or off**.
3. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Internet Information Services**, and then click **OK**.

    This action installs the IIS 8 default features. Install only the default features for a static-content web server.
4. To verify that IIS installed successfully, enter the following into a web browser:

    `http://localhost`

    You see the default IIS Welcome page.

### To Install IIS by using the command line

Enter the following command at an elevated command prompt or into a script:

[!code-console[Main](scenario-build-a-static-website-on-iis/samples/sample1.cmd)]

<a id="02"></a>
## Step 2: Add a Website

This step tells you how to add a website to IIS by using the IIS Manager UI, or by running Appcmd.exe commands in a command-line window.

### To add a website by using the UI

1. Open IIS Manager. 

    - For Windows Server 2012, on the **Start** page click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click **OK**. In the **Server Manager**, click the **Tools** menu, and then click **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.
    - For Windows 8, on the **Start** page type **Control Panel**, and then click the **Control Panel** icon in the search results. On the **Control Panel** screen, click **System and Security**, click **Administrative Tools**, and then **click Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.
2. In the **Connections** pane, right-click the **Sites** node in the tree, and then click **Add Website**.
3. In the **Add Website** dialog box, enter a friendly name for your website in the **Site name** box.
4. If you want to select a different application pool than the one listed in the **Application Pool** box, click **Select**. In the **Select Application Pool** dialog box, select an application pool from the **Application Pool** list and then click **OK**.
5. In the **Physical path** box, enter the physical path of the website's folder, or click the browse button (**...**) to navigate the file system to find the folder.
6. If the physical path that you entered in the previous step is to a remote share, click **Connect as** to specify credentials that have permission to access the path. If you do not use specific credentials, select the **Application user (pass-through authentication)** option in the **Connect As** dialog box.
7. Select the protocol for the website from the **Type** list.
8. . If you must specify a static IP address for the website (by default, this is set to **All Unassigned**), enter the IP address in the **IP address** box.
9. Enter a port number in the **Port** text box.
10. Optionally, enter a host header name for the website in the **Host Header** box.
11. If you do not have to make any changes to the site, and you want the website to be immediately available, select the **Start Web site immediately** check box.
12. Click **OK**.

### To add a website by using the command line

Use the following syntax at an elevated command prompt or in a script:

Note: For this syntax to work, you either must be in the following directory, or have the directory in your path: *%windir%\system32\inetsrv*

`appcmd add site /name:`*string* `/id:`*uint* `/physicalPath:`*string* `/bindings:`*string*

The variable `name` is the name, and the variable `id` is a positive integer that you want to assign to the site. The variables `name` and `id` are the only variables that are required to add a site by using appcmd. However, if you add a site without specifying the values for the `bindings` and `physicalPath` attributes, the site will not be able to start.

The variable `physicalPath` is the absolute path of the site content in the file system.

The variable `bindings` contains information that is used to access the site. It must be in the form *`protocol/IP_Address:port:hostheader`*. For example, for a website, the binding `http/*:85:` configures the site to listen for HTTP requests on port **85** for all IP addresses and domain names (also known as host headers or host names). On the other hand, a binding of `http/*:85:marketing.contoso.com` configures a website to listen for HTTP requests on port **85** for all IP addresses and for the domain name **marketing.contoso.com**.

To add a website named **contoso** with an ID of 2 that has content in **c:\contoso**, and that listens for HTTP requests on port 85 for all IP addresses and a domain name of **marketing.contoso.com**, enter the following at the command prompt:

`appcmd add site /name:contoso /id:2 /physicalPath:c:\contoso /bindings:http/*:85:marketing.contoso.com`

<a id="03"></a>
## Step 3: Configure Anonymous Authentication

Anonymous authentication gives users access to the public areas of your website without prompting them for a user name or password. You can configure anonymous authentication by using the default anonymous user account (IUSR), or you can set up a local user account for anonymous users.

### To configure anonymous authentication by using the UI

1. In **Features View** of IIS Manager, double-click **Authentication**.
2. On the **Authentication** page, select **Anonymous Authentication**.
3. In the **Actions** pane, click **Edit** to set the security principal (user credentials) under which anonymous users will connect to the site.
4. In the **Edit Anonymous Authentication Credentials** dialog box, select one of the following options:

    - If you want to configure a specific user account that IIS uses to access your site or application, select **Specific user**. Then click **Set** to open the **Set Credentials** dialog box, and enter a user name and password for the identity. Then click **OK**.
    - If you want IIS processes to run by using the account that is currently specified on the property page for the application pool, select **Application pool identity**. By default, this identity is the IUSR account. (**Important**: If you use the IUSR account, you grant anonymous users all the internal network access associated with that account.)
5. Click **OK** to close the **Edit Anonymous Authentication Credentials** dialog box.

### To configure anonymous authentication by using the command line

Use the following syntax to change the default account for anonymous access:

`appcmd set config /section:anonymousAuthentication /userName:`*string* `/password:`*string*

The variable `username` is the account that IIS uses for anonymous authentication, and the variable `password` is the password, which is encrypted in the configuration file by default. For example, to use an account named **Moe** and a password of **pssword1** for anonymous access, enter the following at the command prompt:

`appcmd set config /section:anonymousAuthentication /userName:Moe /password:pssword1`

<a id="04"></a>
## Step 4: Configure the Default Documents

When a client request to your website doesn't include a document name, IIS looks for a file whose name is defined as a default document. Typically, the default document name is Default.htm. You can define a list of default document names in order of precedence.

### To configure the default document by using the UI

1. In **Features View** of IIS Manager, double-click **Default Document**.
2. In the **Actions** pane, click **Add**.
3. In the **Name** box, enter the file name that you want to add to the list of default documents and then click **OK**. This file name is added to the top of the default document list.
4. Optionally, select a default document in the list and in the **Actions** pane, click **Move Up** or **Move Down** to change the file's precedence.
5. Optionally, select a default document in the list, and in the **Actions** pane, click **Remove** to remove any file names that you do not want to use as default documents.

### To configure the default document by using the command line

To add a file name to the list of default documents, use the following syntax:

`appcmd set config /section:defaultDocument /+files.[value='`*string*`']`

The variable *string* is the file name that you want to add to the list. For example, to add a file named **home.html** to the default document list, enter the following at the command prompt:

`appcmd set config /section:defaultDocument /+files.[value='home.html']`

To remove a file named **home.html** from the default document list, enter the following at the command prompt, and then press ENTER:

`appcmd set config /section:defaultDocument /-files.[value='home.html']`

<a id="05"></a>
## Step 5: Configure Static Content Compression

You can optionally configure your web server to compress static content to user bandwidth more efficiently and to enhance the performance of your website.

### To configure static content compression by using the UI

1. In **Features View** of IIS Manager, double-click **Compression**.
2. Select **Enable static content compression** to configure IIS to compress static content.
3. In the **Static Compression** box, configure the following settings:

    1. Optionally, select **Only compress files larger than (in bytes)** and enter the minimum file size that you want IIS to compress. The default size is 256 bytes.
    2. In the **Cache directory** text box, enter the path of a local directory or click the browse button (**...**) to locate a directory. After a static file is compressed, it is cached in this temporary directory until it expires, or until the content changes. The temporary directory must be on a local drive on an NTFS-formatted partition. The directory cannot be compressed, and should not be shared.
    3. Optionally, select **Per application pool disk space limit (in MB)** and enter the maximum amount of space per application pool, in megabytes, you want IIS to use when it compresses static content. For example, if there are 20 application pools on the server and the **Disk space limit** is set to 100, the maximum disk space will be 2GB. If you click the **Per application pool disk space limit (in MB)** option and enter a number in the text box under it, IIS automatically cleans up the temporary directory according to a least recently used rule when the set limit is reached. The default is 100 MB per application pool.
4. Click **Apply** in the **Actions** pane.

### To configure static content compression by using the command line

To enable HTTP compression of static content, at the command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

`appcmd set config /section:urlCompression /doStaticCompression:True`

To configure static-content compression settings, use the following syntax:

`appcmd set config /section:urlCompression /minFileSizeforComp:`*int* `/directory:`*string* `/maxDiskSpace:`*int*

The variable `minFileSizeforComp` sets the minimum number of bytes that a file must contain for it to be compressed. The default value is *256*. The variable `directory` specifies the directory where compressed versions of static files are temporarily stored and cached. The default is the following folder:

`%SystemDrive%\inetpub\temp\IIS Temporary Compressed Files`

The variable `maxDiskSpace` sets the maximum amount of space per application pool, in megabytes, that you want IIS to use when it compresses static content. The default is 100 MB per application pool.

<a id="06"></a>
## Next Steps

Test your website thoroughly to ensure that it functions as expected. Then consider configuring the following features:

- To help you troubleshoot or optimize the performance of your web server, set up IIS logging. For instructions see, [Configure Logging in IIS](../provisioning-and-managing-iis/configure-logging-in-iis.md).
- To improve the security of your web server, configure request filtering. For instructions see, [Configure Request Filtering in IIS](../configuring-security/configure-request-filtering-in-iis.md).

## See also

- [Hosting-Friendly Web Server Platform (IIS): Scenario Overview](../../get-started/introduction-to-iis/hosting-friendly-web-server-platform-iis-scenario-overview.md)
- [Build an ASP.NET Website on IIS](../../application-frameworks/scenario-build-an-aspnet-website-on-iis/overview-build-an-asp-net-website-on-iis.md)
- [Build a Classic ASP Website on IIS](../../application-frameworks/running-classic-asp-applications-on-iis-7-and-iis-8/scenario-build-a-classic-asp-website-on-iis.md)
- [Build a PHP Website on IIS](../../application-frameworks/scenario-build-a-php-website-on-iis/overview-build-a-php-website-on-iis.md)
- [Build an FTP Site on IIS](../../publish/using-the-ftp-service/scenario-build-an-ftp-site-on-iis.md)
- [Build a Web Farm with IIS Servers](../../web-hosting/scenario-build-a-web-farm-with-iis-servers/overview-build-a-web-farm-with-iis-servers.md)