---
title: "New Features Introduced  in IIS 10.0 Version 1709 | Microsoft Docs"
author: shirhatti
description: "The article introduces native HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) support in IIS 10.0 version 1709."
ms.author: soshir
ms.date: 10/24/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.technology: iis
ms.prod: iis
msc.type: authoredcontent
---
New Features Introduced  in IIS 10.0 Version 1709
=================================================

IIS 10.0 Version 1709 is the latest version of Internet Information Services
(IIS) which shipped with Windows 10 Fall Creators Update and Window Server 2016
Version 1709. This article describes the new functionality of IIS and provides
links to resources to learn more about these features.

## HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)

HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS), specified in
[RFC 6797](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6797), allows a website to declare
itself as a secure host and to inform browsers that it should be contacted only
through HTTPS connections. IIS 10.0 Version 1709 introduces turn-key support for
enabling HSTS without the need for error-prone URL rewrite rules.

Learn more: [HSTS](iis-10-version-1709-hsts.md)

## Container Enhancements

IIS 10.0 Version 1709 introduces improvements that allow you to run the IIS
worker process (w3wp.exe) directly as well as changes to the Central Certificate
Provider (CCS) that makes it more amenable for running in containers.

## IISAdministration PowerShell cmdlets

IIS 10.0 introduced the IIS Administration PowerShell cmdlets. Version 1709
ships with iterative improvements and three new cmdlets: `Get-IISSiteBinding`,
`New-IISSiteBinding`, and `Remove-IISSiteBinding`. Additionally, we've done work
to ship the latest version of IISAdministration on PowerShell Gallery available
for use with Windows Server 2012 and above.

Learn more: [IIS Administration in the PowerShell Gallery](https://blogs.iis.net/iisteam/introducing-iisadministration-in-the-powershell-gallery)

## Logging Enhancements

In IIS 10.0 Version 1709, we introduced new server variables for the
Cryptographic Protocol, the Cipher algorithm, the Key Exchange Algorithm, and
the Message Authentication Algorithm. These new variables have been documented
in the list of [IIS Server Variables](../../web-dev-reference/server-variables.md)

Learn more: [IIS functionality to identify weak TLS usage](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/microsoftsecure/2017/09/07/new-iis-functionality-to-help-identify-weak-tls-usage/)
